# Non-ThermalDistributionCalc
Python scripts to calculate the non-thermal distribution and rate coefficients for the isotopes of O(1D) in O2 and CO2 photochemistry experiments. The two scripts included in this repository are the following:

## o1d_initial.py

Calculates the non-thermal distribution for 16O, 17O, and 18O from ozone photolysis given an initial distribution.

## lorentz_gas_py35.py

Calculates a non-thermal distribution for each isotope of O(1D) from the steady-state Boltzmann equation given an initial distribution. Then, the script uses the non-thermal distribution to calculate non-thermal rate coefficients for each reaction of O(1D) in the experiment. These rate coefficients can then be used in a standard chemical kinetics model (i.e., a differential equation integrator.) 

## Additional files

Additional files are included in the repository that serve as raw input for the calculations. The non-thermal distribution of O(1D) from ozone photolysis at 255 nm from Dylewski et al. (2001) is included as input for the model. In addition, files containing the branching ratios for each of the relevant reactions and collisions to the model are also included. The files containing the collision kernels for each elastic and inelastic collision are not included due to the size of the files. Those kernels can be generated by the script, although the calculation is somewhat long (approximately 11-12 minutes per kernel.)

## References

Andersen, K., and K. E. Shuler (1964), On the Relaxation of the Hard-Sphere Rayleigh and Lorentz Gas, J. Chem. Phys., 633(25), 633–650.

Dylewski, S. M., J. D. Geiser, and P. L. Houston (2001), The energy distribution, angular distribution, and alignment of the O(1D2) fragment from the photodissociation of ozone between 235 and 305 nm, J. Chem. Phys., 115(16), 7460, doi:10.1063/1.1405439.

Kharchenko, V., J. Tharamel, and A. Dalgarno (1997), Kinetics of thermalization of fast nitrogen atoms beyond the hard sphere approximation, J. Atmos. Solar-Terrestrial Phys., 59(1), 107–115.

Kharchenko, V., and A. Dalgarno (2004), Thermalization of fast O(1D) atoms in the stratosphere and mesosphere, J. Geophys. Res., 109(D18), 1–6, doi:10.1029/2004JD004597.

Mebel, A. M., M. Hayashi, V. V. Kislov, and S. H. Lin (2004), Theoretical Study of Oxygen Isotope Exchange and Quenching in the O(1D) + CO2 Reaction, J. Phys. Chem. A, 108(39), 7983–7994, doi:10.1021/jp049315h.

Taniguchi, N., K. Hirai, K. Takahashi, and Y. Matsumi (2000), Relaxation Processes of Translationally Hot O(1D) by Collisions with O2, J. Phys. Chem. A, 104(17), 3894–3899, doi:10.1021/jp994291d.
